# Scorecard Catalogue
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://youtu.be/iebnCEmV5l8?si=LsjTMclVCX5dT88P>
#### Link to site: <URL https://www.scorecardcatalogue.com/login>
#### Description:



Scorecard Catalogue is my final project for CS50*. It is a flask based web application.

The purpose of Scorecard Catalogue is to function as a digital collection of golf scorecards. Additionally, it automatically calculates and stores stats as rounds are completed. The goal is to let the user move away from physical, disposable golf scorecards, allowing them to enter their scores and their playing partners scores as the round progresses as you would do with a traditional scorecard. Once the round is complete, they must simply click “add round” and a scorecard of their round is created.

Here is a breakdown of the various pages and the features they provide.

### Layout

The layout of the flask app was borrowed initially from CS50 Finance, and then modified for the purposes of this project.

The logo, which also acts as a home button, is an image of a golf ball with the website’s title, Score Card Catalogue (scorecard broken into two words in this case as a style choice). This image was generated by ChatGPT and further optimized into a .webp file for improved load time.

The navbar features three nav links (and a fourth, Final Project, that can be seen in the submission video, which will not be featured on the live site). They are “Rounds”, “Courses”, and “Players”, and each act as a button for a dropdown menu providing further options. In each case the further options are simply “My” and “New” variations, with “My” linking to a page that shows data, such as scorecards, that the user has previously given, and “New” linking to a page that allows users to input new data, such as logging a new round of golf.

The navbar additionally provides a register link and a login link when there is no active session (no user is logged in) and a logout link during an active session (when a user is logged in).

### Register (/register)

The register page allows someone to create an account on Scorecard Catalogue.

The main logic in app.py for registering users was a requirement in CS50 Finance (ensuring unique user name, confirming passwords, etc) and was reused in this project. Specific to this project, the user is also asked to provide a nickname, which as noted is the name that will appear on their scorecard.

This was a design choice that was made when building the scorecards after realizing that a potentially long user name would not be displayed well given the space constraints of a digital scorecard and the fact that a user will typically wish to have their first name on their scorecard, which may already be taken as a username.

### Login (/login)

The login page and logic is reused from CS50 Finance and styled for Scorecard Catalogue.

### Scorecard Design

The scorecards are designed to always display the name of the course as the first row of the scorecard table and stretch across all the columns of the table. This is effectively the title of the scorecard.

If it is being displayed as an actual round of golf, the second row features the date the round was played on.

On screens larger than 425px (large mobile), the handicap of the hole is displayed as a header for each hole. On mobile devices this was removed in order to preserve space. The handicap can still be viewed on the My Courses page, since the lack of player scores allows the extra space.

When displaying rounds, the user is always the first name and score on the card, where the user’s name is their nickname they chose when registering.

The scorecards are fully responsive, with a separate HTML layout for each of the major screen sizes (laptop, tablet, mobile), which are either hidden or displayed based on the current screen size using css media queries.

A learning curve to the scorecard design was the discovery that displaying the scorecards in a traditional horizontal layout was not realistic on screen sizes smaller than a small laptop. The layout began to overflow in the tablet range and shrinking them to fit was not an option as the information would have been too small to read. Since I did not want to use horizontal scrolling as a solution, I opted for a switch to vertical scorecards (holes, par, etc displayed as a column rather than a row).

### Homepage (/)

The homepage is the most complex page of the site, and as such offers the most robust content.

It opens with a greeting “Hello, {{user’s nickname}}” which is a call back to one of CS50’s first projects, hello.c

Below it is the same golf ball .webp that is featured as the site’s logo, but in this instance it has the user’s handicap index displayed on it. The user’s handicap index is calculated when the “/” route is called, and is an accurate calculation of a handicap index using the best 8 rounds from the 20 most recent rounds the user has recorded.

Below this is a scorecard that displays the user’s most recent round.

Next are two golf balls, one of which features the user’s most recent score, and the other featuring the user’s average score. If the most recent round was 9 holes, the average score is what the user shoots on average for a 9 hole round of golf, specifically. Else, the average score is what the user shoots on average for an 18 hole round. These are both calculated in the “/” route each time it is called.

To go along with those stats, a funny message is generated dynamically based on the amount the user is over or under their average.

Finally, the homepage displays more golf balls with the user’s stats on them, such as number of rounds played, pars shot, best front 9, etc. This data is all calculated when the “/” route is called.

### My Rounds (/my_rounds)

The My Rounds page displays the user’s previous rounds in descending order of the date they were played (the most recent round appears at the top of the page).

In the case of rounds played on the same date, it will display the rounds in descending order of round id, maintaining the most recently played round format, as round id is automatically generated.

This page displays both 9 hole and 18 hole rounds.

### New Round (/new_round)

The user is taken to new_round when it is clicked on in the navbar dropdown.

On this page the user selects the number of players for a round and the number of holes for the round.

If the number of players selected is 1 the user is automatically redirected to add_round.

Else, the user is redirected to new_round_players.

### New Round Players (/new_round_players)

If the number of players selected for the new round was greater than 1, the user is redirected to this page where there is a number of select menus dynamically generated based on the number of players - 1. The options for the dropdown menu are the user’s created playing partners.

When submitted, the user is redirected to add_round.

### Add Round (/add_round)

Here, the user adds the round information and fills out the scores.

The user must select the course from a select menu where the options are the user’s created courses.

The user must then select the date the round was played on. This could have been done automatically where the date was the date the round was added, but having it as a form input allows the user to add old scorecards with the accurate date.

The user then fills out the scores for the round.

There is an input box for each player on each hole and the placeholder is the user’s nickname, and any additional player’s first name, if there are any.

### My Courses (/courses)

The My Courses page shows a scorecard for each of the courses the user has created. At this time all courses are 18 holes.

### New Course (/new18)

Here the user can create a new course. There is an input box for the name of the course and then for every hole there is an input box for yards, handicap, and par. The user must also fill out front par, front yards, back par, back yards, total par, and total yards.

### My Players (/players)

Here the user’s created playering partners ("players") are listed, each as a table with stats about them. The tables are displayed in descending order based on the rounds each player has played.

The stats in the player tables include rounds played, handicap index, average score, birdies, pars, etc.

### Number of Players (/number_players)

The user is redirected here after clicking on “New Players” in the navbar players dropdown menu.

There is a select menu where the user must choose how many new players to create, between 1 - 6.

They are then redirected to add_players.

### Add Players (/add_players)

Here, two text boxes are generated for each additional player being added. The first is for the new player’s first name, and the second is for their last name.

When submitted, the user is redirected to /players.


* This was originally built in the CS50 IDE using CS50 SQL. ChatGPT was used to help switch it to use SQLAlchemy so that PostgreSQL could be used with the live site.


